
# Step by Step Algorithm

1. Initializing a Dictionary:
	- We initialize an empty dictionary called ``paid_index``. This dictionary will be used to store the indices of numbers encountered during the iteration.

```
pair_index = {}
```

2. Iterating Through the List:
	- We use the 'enumerate()' function to iterate through the ``nums`` list along with their indices.
	- At each iteration, ``i`` represents the index of the current number, and 'num' represents the actual value. 

```
for i, num in enumerate(nums):
```

3. Checking for Complementary Pair:
	- We check if the difference ``target - num`` exists as a key in the ``paid_index`` dictionary.
	- If it exists, it means that we have found a pair of numbers whose sum equals the target.

```
if target - num in paid_index:
```

4. Returning the Result:
	-  If we find the complementary pair, we return a list containing the indices of the current number ``i`` and the index of the complementary number stored in the ``pair_index`` dictionary.

```
return [i, pair_index[target - num]]
```

5. Storing 
	- If the complementary pair is not found, we store the current number ``num`` along with its index ``i`` in the ``pair_index`` dictionary.
	- This allows us to later look up whether the complementary number exists in the list.

```
pair_index[num] = i
```

## Summary

This algorithm efficiently finds a pair of numbers in the ``nums`` list whose sum equals the ``target`` value. It does so by using a dictionary to store the indices of numbers encountered so far and checking for the existence of complementary numbers during the iteration.

```
class Solution: 
	def twoSum(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> List[int]: 
		pair_index = {}
		
		for i, num in enumerate(nums):
			if target - num in pair_index:
				return [i, pair_index[target - num]]
			pair_index[num] = i
```

## Complexity

- Time complexity: O(n)  
    `n` is number of elements in input array.
    
- Space complexity: O(n)  
    `n` is number of elements in input array. In the worst case, we put all numbers in `pair_idx`.

# Alternatives


```
class Solution:
	def twoSum(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> List[int]:
		for i in range(len(nums)):
			for j in range(i + 1, len(nums)):
				if nums[j] == target - nums[i]:
					return [i, j]
					
		return []
```